well howdy there internet people it's
beau again
so uh today we're going to talk about
wolves
and declaring victory we're going to do
this because i got a question
bo since i'm certain you will know
what's going on with the wolves is this
a good idea or a bad idea i've looked
and nobody
outside of those involved is taking a
hard stand even in pr
is this a good idea and have we won
or is this another bad idea in a long
string of bad ideas from the trump
administration involving the environment
yeah sounds about right
okay so disclosure notice the reason
this person is certain that i'm going to
know something about it is that i've
raised money to protect gray wolves
so i'm not exactly objective on this one
i have a bias um
so the facts of what's going on the gray
wolf is being delisted it's coming off
of the list
that is protected by the endangered
species act
is it a good idea
okay i'm going to go ahead and say no
it's not
from my standpoint it's not but i am
going to try to
at least give you the other side to this
so you can kind of make up your own mind
on it
for i don't know 40 50 years
people have struggled to bring this
animal back from the brink
and it is a success story
there are stable populations in the
upper rockies
and around the great lakes and it seems
like a win
and it could be very easily seen that
way and be painted that way and be
framed that way
however the gray wolf pretty much
existed almost everywhere in the u.s
and now it exists in little pockets
there are some areas such as the pacific
northwest
where it's starting to make inroads but
it doesn't have a stable population yet
the worry is that if
if the wolf's taken off of the list if
it's delisted
the responsibility falls to the states
and we have no idea what the states are
going to do
they could manage it perfectly that that
is a possibility
they could do their part and make sure
that the comeback continues
or they could open it up to sport
and decimate the population in a few
years and erase 50 years of work
that's also a possibility
the reason nobody's taking a hard stand
on it
is because we're right there we're at
the finish line
if this conversation was taking place 10
years from now i don't think you'd have
much of an objection
because i believe that in another 10
years
it it would be over it would be a great
success story
but as it stands right now i don't think
that final chapter has been written yet
it's still not certain that
everything will be fine i think the best
example
i can give the best comparison is our
current public health thing
you have a problem you introduce
policies
the numbers start going the way you want
them to go
some politician comes along may be
influenced by
economic interests and removes those
policies
the numbers start going the other way
that's the worry
and it's a very real worry um
again i don't think that it's time yet
at the same time i understand
why outlets are reluctant to take a hard
stand
because it is we're right there we're
right at the finish line
i just i don't i don't think we've
crossed it yet
um a few more years
and that would probably change it's a
matter of
whether you're willing to risk it or you
want to be certain you've won
and i think it would be a shame to waste
50 years
or so of work
that has brought this animal back
i mean it's nowhere near everywhere that
it used to be
but it probably never will be i think
that in a few years though
we could be certain that
the populations would remain and
that we had won right now i'm not
the only good news about this is twofold
one
the organizations that are out there
protecting the wolf
they are already sending emails about
petitions and lawsuits
to to people involved i've already got
some
the other good bit of news is the states
that
have those populations that exist but
aren't
exactly stable yet they tend to be the
states that listen to science
so it is theoretically possible that we
still get a happy
ending to this story i just
i have doubts i have concerns and it
seems
it seems premature to me seems premature
at the end of the day once the election
is over i imagine
this will be in the news a lot because
there will be lawsuits
guaranteed um
but that that's where it is do i think
it's a good idea no no i don't think
we're there yet i think we're really
close
at the same time we are so close
i can't fault anybody any outlet that
isn't
actively involved in this um for saying
hey it's kind of a both sides issue
because we are so close
and it would be very easy for a lobbyist
firm or a pr firm
to paint it as if it's already happened
as if we've already won we've already
made this great achievement
and in a lot of ways we have you know
we did bring this animal back from the
brink
but i don't think it's at the point
where it's guaranteed that it's gonna
stay there
and i think that should be the goal um
so there you go i tried to be objective
but at the end of the day
yeah fun to the organizations that are
helping
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good day